---
title: 'The meaning of doing a GOOD PhD'
date: 2019-09-12
permalink: /posts/2019/09/blog-post-2/
tags:
  - Like
  - Dislike
  - Don't give a dam
---

For almost a couple of years in the middle of my PhD journey, I struggled between doing a good PhD and an average one. But whenever my superviors asked me what it means to be a GOOD PhD, I could not give a proper definition. As this long, stressful and exciting journey is about to come to an end for me, perhaps this is the time to stop doing anything but looking back and contemplating the past.

Are you struggling in your PhD?
------

If you are, or you worry that you might in the near future, I strongly suggest you to read this article by Julio Peironcely.

https://jherbohnforestrygroup.weebly.com/uploads/1/1/6/6/11664733/survive-your-phd-ebook.pdf


What does PhD mean to me? 
------

In the earlier years of my PhD life, I thought doing a PhD is not much different from solving a problem, except this problem is more challenging than the problem that I solved in the master degree. This perspective is more or less correct, because to graduate from the program succesfully one must demonstrate a (positive or perhaps negative) solution to the research problem that is proposed. There are, however, infinitely many questions in the world that need to be answered. Therefore, the ratio between the importance of a solution to a problem and the importance of the independent problem solving ability is a small value that is almost zero. What I think even more important than independent problem solving ability is the ability to independently recognize a problem. From what I see during my PhD and postdoc years, a lot of high GPA researchers cannot independently see what problems they are facing and how to rigorously formulate these problems in order to solve them mathematically. Does this mean these people are incapable of doing these tasks? No. It suggests to me that these people lack independent research experience. Why? For two reasons. First, from a student's perspective, the current trend of doing a PhD is to join a big group/lab that is active in publishing papers, together! I admit the fact that collaboration is important for scientific research. I also admit the possibility that the momentum from a big research group is able to push one's potential to the next level. Having said that, as one out of n authors on the last paper that you published, do you really agree that everyone deserves an authorship? Second, from a supervisor's perspective, which one is more important for future promotion, let students master their independent research skills or let students write code, do experiments and write papers which lead to more publications?            


