---
title: 'The meaning of doing a GOOD PhD'
date: 2019-09-12
permalink: /posts/2019/09/blog-post-2/
tags:
  - Like
  - Dislike
  - Don't give a dam
---

For almost a couple of years in the middle of my PhD journey, I struggled between doing a good PhD and an average one. But whenever my supervisors asked me what it means to be a GOOD PhD, I could not give a proper definition. As this long, stressful and exciting journey is about to come to an end for me, perhaps this is the time to stop doing anything but looking back and contemplating the past.

Are you struggling in your PhD?
------

If you are, or you worry that you might in the near future, I strongly suggest you read this article by Julio Peironcely.

https://jherbohnforestrygroup.weebly.com/uploads/1/1/6/6/11664733/survive-your-phd-ebook.pdf


What does PhD mean to me? 
------

In the earlier years of my PhD life, I thought doing a PhD is nothing but successfully solve a difficult problem. This perspective is more or less correct because to graduate from the program successfully one must demonstrate a (positive or perhaps negative) solution to the research problem that is proposed. There are, however, infinitely many questions in the world that need to be answered. Therefore, the ratio between the importance of a solution to a problem and the importance of the independent problem-solving ability is a small value that is almost zero. What I think even more important than independent problem-solving ability is the ability to independently recognize a problem. 

From what I see during my PhD and postdoc years, some high GPA researchers cannot independently see what problems they are facing and how to rigorously formulate these problems to solve them mathematically. Does this mean these people are incapable of doing these tasks? No. It suggests to me that these people lack independent research experience. Why? For two reasons. First, from a student's perspective, the current trend of doing a PhD is to join a big group/lab that is active in publishing papers, together! I admit the fact that collaboration is important for scientific research. I also admit the possibility that the momentum from a big research group can push one's potential to the next level. But when working in a group, one often focuses on a specific task that suits his/her expertise without seeing the motivation of solving this problem and how the problem evolved to the current status from the past. Second, from a supervisor's perspective, which one is more important for future promotion, let students master their independent research skills or let students write code, do experiments and write papers that lead to more publications?

So what does PhD mean to me? In my perspective, it is a process that allows one to master his/her independent problem-solving skill, in the context of a particular domain. This, by all means, is a long, stressful but exciting journey. How does one keep his/her motivation during such a long time? By solving a problem that one feels enthusiastic about. What else does one acquire after completing a PhD study? Hopefully, one becomes an expert in the working domain, not just in a very specific problem. Besides, one could also acquire skills including organizational, time management, planning, etc.

What does publications mean to me? 
------

To me, doing research and publishing papers is like living a life and posting photos on social media. I like cooking and I cook well, sometimes I would like to share the dishes that I cooked on social media with those who are interested in what I have cooked. Regardless of whether or not I share those dishes online, I enjoy my life! Just because some people do not share photos as often as I do, it does not mean they are worse cookers than I am! So why do I share photos at all? Because I want others to know what I have done so that I can get advice from people to improve my understanding and skills. 





